Privacy
=======

This website uses cookies to provide certain functionality and to collect user statics. In the following we describe why we use cookies and what types of cookies we use.

What are cookies?
-----------------
Cookies are small pieces of data that are stored in your web browser. The exact type of information
depends on the site that sets the cookie. To learn more about cookies please see the corresponding
`Wikipedia article <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_cookie>`_.

Why we use cookies
------------------
This website uses cookies for two purposes:

* To enhance the capabilities of the web page.
* To collect user statistics.

Enhanced capabilities include the inclusion of a Twitter feed and web page search features.
To collect user statistics we use `Google Analytics <https://www.google.co.uk/analytics>`_.
The reason is that we would like to obtain statistics about how many people are using this website
and the software on this site and from what regions the users are coming from. This data allows us to make
a better case at research councils for continued funding for BEM++ to further develop and improve the
software.

Disabling the use of cookies
----------------------------
Should you want to use this website without cookies you can disable the use of cookies in 
your web browser. The exact steps to do this are dependent on the browser. Please refer to
your corresponding browser documentation. To specifically opt out of Google Analytics you
can also visit this `Google page <http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout>`_.

Specific disclaimer on Google Analytics
---------------------------------------
This website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc. (“Google”). Google Analytics uses “cookies”, which are text files placed on your computer, to help the website analyze how users use the site. The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website (including your IP address) will be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States. Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling reports on website activity for website operators and providing other services relating to website activity and internet usage. Google may also transfer this information to third parties where required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on Google’s behalf. Google will not associate your IP address with any other data held by Google. You may refuse the use of cookies by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser, however please note that if you do this you may not be able to use the full functionality of this website. By using this website, you consent to the processing of data about you by Google in the manner and for the purposes set out above.

